In order to write JavaScript code you need
a code editor. There are various code editors out there including
Visual Studio Code or VSCode, Sublime Text,
Atom, and so on. Out of these, my favorite is visual studio.
Code that we can download from code.visualstudio.com.
It's a very simple, lightweight, cross platform and
powerful editor. So if you don't have visual studio code on your machine, go
ahead and download it, the other thing I want you to install is Node.
You can download node from nod.js.org.
Now technically you don't necessarily need Node to execute JavaScript.
Because as I explained before, you can execute JavaScript code inside
of a browser or in Node. But it's good to have Node on your machine
because we use that to install third party libraries and also
later in this section I'm going to show you a preview of Node. So,
pause the video now, and download Visual Studio Code as well as Node.
Once you're done, come back and continue watching.
Alright, now I want you to create a new folder,
call that js-
basics, the name doesn't really matter, we just want to have a folder
for writing all the code in this course. Now, drag and drop
this folder into Visual Studio Code.
Okay? We've got this folder open, let's add a new file here,
index.html.
Now you don't really need to know Html in order to take this course. But if you want to
be a front-end developer you should know your html well. Now in this
file, I want you to type an exclamation mark and then press
tab. This generates some basic html boiler plate,
we don't really care about any of this code here, we're going to use this as a
host for our JavaScript code. You're going to see that in the next lecture, so,
save the changes, now, open the
extensions tab here. Here in this box,
search for live server.
So live server is a very light weight web server
that we're going to use to serve our web application.
So install this, then you will have to restart visual studio code,
when you're done, go to the explorer tab,
write click index.html and select
open with live server.
This will open up Chrome, or your default browser, and point it
to this address. That's where our web application is served from.
Now currently we have an empty page, to make sure everything is working
properly, let's go back to visual studio code,
here in the body section, let's add an h1,
press tab and type hello world. Now
save the changes, back in the browser, you can see this page
is refreshed automatically and we've got the Hello World heading here.
In the next lecture, you're going to write your first JavaScript code.